Hi, in this segment,
I'm going to introduce the machine
learning sequence model approach
to named entity recognition and other
kinds of information extraction tasks.
So I'm going to say a little bit about the
structure of how you approach things and
the features they use for that task.
And then in the next segment, I'm
going to talk about the details of using
maximum entry models,
as sequence classifiers.
So if we're going to use a sequence
model for named entity recognition,
we need supervised training data.
What that means is we have
examples of training documents
where the words are labeled for
what their entity class is.
So the steps we're going to have
to go through is first of all
collecting a representative set of
training documents that contain
entities that we're interested in and
context we're interested.
And then we are going to go through
each word, and label each token for
its entity class or if it's not any
entity class, it'll be labeled other.
Which is normally denoted O.
Then on the machine learning classifier
side, we're going to design appropriate
feature extractors for
identifying words for the classes.
And then we're going to train a sequence
classifier whose job is to do the best job
possible it can of labeling each
token with its entity class or other.
And so this is the part we'll
talk about in the next chunk.
When we then want to run the classifier
on actual documents to do stuff,
that's often referred to as testing but
maybe we should just call it classifying.
We then have the train model so
we get a set of testing documents.
We have model.
And we just run the sequence model
inference on each document and
it will be able to tell us the highest
probability label for each token.
We use those labels to
output recognized entities.
This all probably becomes more
concrete if I show you an example.
So here is our document which
is a sequence of words.
And so the labeling which is done by
hand for the training documents and
automatically by their train
model at classification time,
is putting on each word
a label which is representing
either its entity type, or it's an other.
So, in this column,
I'm showing what gets called IO encoding,
which is short for Inside-Outside.
And it's the most obvious and
natural thing for
someone to come up with for doing named
entity recognition and sequence labeling.
So we're taking Fred and
labeling him as a person.
We're then taking showed and
labeling it as other,
then Sue is a person name
Mengqiu is a person name.
Huang is part of a person name and
then this next three tokens
were all other, other, other.
But there's a catch in
that labeling scheme,
which is actually this
is one person's name and
then this is another person's name.
And we can't represent
that in IO encoding.
We can only say that we'll
take maximal sequences
of entities at the same class and
call them the name of an entity.
So to recognize two entities here,
whereas really there are three.
And so there's a technical way to fix that
problem, and that's known as IOB encoding.
And the way that you do IOB encoding
is you're prefixing each class
with a B if it's the beginning
of an entity of that class, or
an I if it's a continuation
of an entity of that class.
So then we can see,
here's one person name.
Here's a second person name,
and we know it stops here because
we have another B right there.
Then we have a third person
name which is two tokens long.
So the IOB encoding isn't deficient and
solves this problem.
It comes at a bit of a cost because if we
suppose that we have C entity classes.
For IO encoding,
you need to have C plus 1 labels,
whereas for IOB encoding you
have to have 2C plus 1 labels.
The plus one's coming from the other for
which you don't need to distinguish
the BI even on IOB encoding.
Well that seems a fairly small difference,
but as we'll see when we look
at sequence models, if you have
any sequence information, you're raising
this to the order of the sequence model.
So you're at the minimum, squaring this.
So that means that you
are ending up with things having
considerably slower run
time with the IOB encoding.
So, while in some sense this is
clearly the right thing to do since
it is not deficient representation and
a lot of people actually do, do this.
I'll reveal a little secret here which is
in the Stanford name entity recognizer,
we actually use IO encoding.
And the reasons why we do
that is it runs a lot faster.
And it turns out that the slight limits in
the representation aren't
really a problem in practice.
And there are two reasons that
it's not a problem in practice.
One is, situations like this,
very, very rarely occur.
While you'll quite often get
entities next to each other,
they're most commonly entities
of different classes.
But the IO encoding has no
problem if it's a person
followed by an organization, then it
can see the boundary perfectly well.
You only have a problem when you
have two entities of the same class.
And that happens pretty rarely.
Now it does happen occasionally,
but it turns out that in practice,
systems trained with IOB encoding
very rarely get this right even though
they are capable of representing it.
That because of the fact that having
more classes worsens the sparseness,
and because of the fact it's simply
hard to tell where one name ends and
the next one begins.
What you find is in practice, IOB trained
systems given data like this to tag,
will nearly always tag them as
one person name of three tokens.
Which is exactly the same
classification we extract in practice
with the IO classification.
And so in practice, using this works fine,
despite a slight ugliness and
so we use it.
Okay, let me now just say a moment about
what features we put in to sequence
labeling for information extraction or
named entity recognition problems.
The obvious starting point is we
put in features for the words.
So we put in a feature for
the current word in each class.
So that essentially works like a learned
dictionary of words in each class.
And then we also put in features for
the previous and
next words which give us
some context features.
We know that for
things like words after at or
to might be more likely to be locations.
If we have used other kinds
of linguistic processing and
we know part-of-speech tags,
that'll often also be useful features.
And we might also first throw them in for
the current words part-of-speech tag,
the next words part-of-speech tag, and
the previous words part-of-speech tag.
Now all of these features are just
looking at the observed data, and
they could be be just done in a straight
classifier built for each word.
You only have a sequence model when
you also put in the Label context and
so that's when you're
saying that John Smith.
>> If you think that
John is a person name,
then it's quite likely that the next
token is also a person name,
because person names are commonly
more than one token long.
And so you can features that model this
label sequence and it's having features of
this type that are definitional for
making something a sequence model.
But before we get into the details of
sequence models, I'd just like to mention
a couple of other kinds of features
that are back at this level that
are a little bit more interesting than
just using the words as they are.
And these features are really useful for
having the models generalize better and
work better on rare and unseen words.
One of those kinds of features
is character subsequences.
So character subsequences of word can
be very useful classificatory features.
So I'm just going to show
a neat example of this that was
done by a student of mine,
Joseph Smart, years ago.
So he was classifying entities
as one of these five classes.
Drug, company, movie, place, person.
And what he asked was how indicative
a particular character subsequence is.
And here are just a couple
of examples from his data.
So here's some of the words he was trying
to classify, just to give an idea.
Well they weren't only words actually,
they could be multiword
sequences like this one here.
But now let's ask some questions about
particular character subsequences.
Suppose you know that the term
to be classified has oxa in it.
What turns out this x letter's a really
strong marker of drug names, right,
that's all of the drug names,
like Xanax, and things like that.
The people have these kind of particular
semantic sound patterns
that they name drugs after.
And in this data at least,
if you saw the letter oxa in a term,
100% of the time it was a drug name,
so that's why it's all purple here.
So that was a categorical
indicator feature.
So that's an extreme case, and
most of them aren't like that, but
there are lots of other good features.
Here's another very good
feature from his data.
For these terms,
if you saw a colon in the term,
that was pretty much a giveaway
that it was a movie name.
There are only a few exceptions up here.
So that one's an almost
categorical feature.
Here's perhaps a more typical example, but
a place where character
subsequences are still very useful.
So that, if a word ends in field.
I mean, it could be anything just about.
It couldn't be a drug name in this data,
but
it could be a place, it could be a person,
so David Copperfield.
It could be the name of a movie,
because there's a movie David Copperfield.
It could be the name of a company.
But because of the semantic origins of
this field ending, if it ends in field,
it's overwhelmingly a location
over two-thirds of the time.
So ending in field is still
a very good indicative feature.
And so this way character substring
features are very useful.
Here's one other kind of feature
that turns out to be quite
complimentary to character subsequences.
So this is what I call
word shape sequences, and
it's an idea that was first suggested
by Michael Collins as far as I'm aware.
And the idea was that you map
words onto equivalence classes,
which are a simplified representation
that encodes attributes such as
something about the length of the word,
something about its capitalization,
use of numerals, internal punctuation and
things like that.
There are very many particular ways
that you can do it, but this gives you
an example of the general idea of how
to do it done on biological entities.
So precisely in this system the way it
was defined was that any capital letter,
A, B, etc.,
were being mapped to a capital X.
Any little Latin letter was
being mapped to a little x.
Any number was being mapped to a little d.
And symbols, like a hyphen, or a colon, or
a period, were being mapped to themselves.
And then there was one more
trick that was being used here,
which was a way of
shortening adjacent letters.
So the idea was that the beginnings and
ends of words are important, but
maybe we can pay less attention
to stuff in the middle.
So how these were worked out is
the first two letters and the last
two letters are being encoded according
to this system that I've drawn over here.
And so that means if the word
is four characters or less, so
that's picking up this length idea,
you can see its length in the encoding.
So if we had another example, and
something was just xp
that'd be encoded as xx.
But if a word is longer
than four characters,
you're not encoding everything
about the remaining characters.
For all the characters in the middle,
you're just saying,
what is the set of these
character types that occur?
So, in this set here there's a lower
case letter and there's a dash symbol.
And then that set is being written out
in a cannocialized order which is always
the same, so actually the dash comes
before the x and that's giving this form.
A lot of details there.
A lot of different ways you can imagine
doing it, but the important part is that
in this way we're defining this word
shape equivalence class for each word.
And so these are much denser
than the rare individual words,
but can be kind of good predictors of
their behavior because they're recording
important attributes
like is there a digit,
is it capitalized, is it all caps or
having funny capitals at the end of it.
So those can be useful features for
classification.
Okay so, I hope that introduced
the problem of sequence models and
some of the features we use for NER.
I will get back into a bit
of the details of building
a maximum entity sequence model.